All right. So in the last video the first video we just introduced the idea of an English brain. What is it and talked about the things that were going to be doing in this course. Remember an English brain simply what I call an English brain is just your ability to think in English. And I want to end this lesson just talk about a few things that you should remember and a few basic tips for this course and after this course for all of your English studies. OK. A few things too we could say. Keep in mind a few things to keep in mind. So let's go over a few things. The first thing to remember is that you're going to have to work hard if you want to be fluent if you want to be a great English speaker. You've got to work hard. You may be asking for or wanting a very fast little trick to become an awesome English speaker. Well this depends on the students some students can improve really quickly. But generally I can tell you if you want to be good at something you have to practice it. This is obvious. So I hope you don't think that at the end of this course you're going to magically be a fluent English speaker. Of course not probably. OK. Now I hope you can take the things from this course and then practice the ideas from it again and again until you do become a fluent English speaker. That's the idea. So I just hope that you keep in your mind that practice is the thing that gets you to fluency not just learning. Learning is the first step. Ah I see. That's how I should do it. Now I'm going to take that idea and do it. Many many many times. So learning something is often not enough. You have to learn it and apply it do it. Practice it many times. Practice will get you to where you're going but you have to practice in the right way. Now some students say well yeah I know I should maybe learn to think in English when I'm speaking but that's not the only way I can also do it another way I can learn by or through my own language and I think in my language and then speak in English and then I will become fluent both ways are OK. No you will not meet and you cannot meet a person who thinks in their language and at the same time speaks in another. It doesn't happen if there is a perfect speaker of this language. Or maybe they learned that language when they're speaking that language perfectly they're thinking in that language and if they change and speak in another language maybe their own language and their thinking in that language the only way the only way there's only one road. There aren't two roads. Both are not OK. The only way is to learn to think in English if you do not do it you will not be a fluent English speaker It's that simple. If you do not do it if you do not learn to think in English you will not be a fluent English speaker. I can promise you I've asked a lot of successful students I've talked to a lot of successful language learners. I've had a lot of experience teaching students and the ones who succeed the ones who do it well are the ones who change their way of thinking and start thinking in English. So the only way both ways or not OK. Another really important thing to remember is that time does not equal success. You can spend a lot of time doing the wrong thing doing things the wrong way. And one of the perfect examples of this is the way to study words. Now we'll be talking about that very soon. And another lesson we'll be talking about that the time that you put in plus the methods that you use together these things can make you successful. This is a way to improve English effectively. You can spend a lot of time learning words an incorrect way and not see much progress. I've met students in the past who studied for years two years studying every day almost nothing almost no progress. It happens. So time is not the only thing. It's also about the way you do it. Time is important. You need time but it's not the only thing. Now you see three words here play jump swim. Why did I quit these three words here. All right. Well it's simple. Don't think of English as this very very hard thing. Like science where this is this right. If you do this you will get this and this is the only way this can be done think of it like this because if you do that you won't really challenge yourself to think creatively in English. So you have to be able to think creatively in English to be able to do well to be able to improve. So play with the language play with it have fun with it. See if this and this works together right. If you learn two things or you learn something new try to see if you can make it work in this way and then maybe ask is this right. Ask someone who knows is this the right way. Don't only follow what someone teaches you right someone teaches you. This is right. Well that might be right but something else might also be right. So when you learn something play with it and by playing with it you explore more about that thing you learn. This is a really great way to understand more about the language how it works and what you can do with it. Also I have the word jump here jump means not to have any reservations. That means don't be shy don't be shy. If you have the opportunity to speak in English speak try. You might think I'm not good enough right. And I know exactly how to say it. I don't know the right words to use. Just try the ones who improve more quickly are the ones who just try. OK maybe you don't know the right word. Is there another way to say it. Can you describe it. Instead of saying the word so jump into it be more enthusiastic be energetic. Use every opportunity or chance that you have to use and practice English and by doing this you will be around English more and you will find out where your problems are. Ah I tried this it didn't work. They didn't understand that. So next time maybe I'll try this way. Oh that worked ok. I got it. But if you never tried if you just sat back and say I'm not good enough I don't know the right words. You'll never know. This wasn't right. You'll never know. This was weird. Right being wrong sometimes sounding strange sometimes sounding incorrect or being incorrect sometimes that's OK. That is OK by making mistakes by jumping in and making mistakes. You will actually improve. So don't be afraid. Don't be shy just try. Don't be afraid. Don't be shy just try. It rhymes. Good swim. Swimming. Basically what I mean is immerse yourself immersed yourself means to surround yourself with the language. If you want to learn a language how can you learn it just by looking at little pieces of the language say English from your own language. If you learn English through your language only and you learn the meaning of that word with your language rather than that language may be OK. You might learn something but it won't be very deep and you won't be able to really really get a feeling for it. Right. And it also might be a little bit slow and it certainly won't help you to think in English which is what this course is about. So immerse yourself be around English as much as you can. The best way to do this is to go to an English speaking country and live there but not everybody can do that. Right. So there are many ways to surround yourself with English and I'm sure you know some of those movies TV radio reading write articles literature poetry listening to a lot of different things. All of these are ways to immerse yourself to swim in English. Hey don't be afraid to surround yourself with the language you're trying to learn. That's called immersion. And if you do it you're more likely to improve more quickly and you're more likely to be able to think in English and you're more likely to be able to get a feeling for English. OK. So play jump swim. I have a 30 minute rule for anything you want to learn. You can't just do it sometimes and not others. You need to do it regularly. Right. Just like if you want to be strong you want to build muscle or you won't be able to build muscle if you go to the gym once every two weeks you'll maybe build a little muscle and then lose the muscle and then you go back to the gym two weeks later. You build a little muscle. You won't see much improvement but the same for English. So you need to make clear rules for yourself. I mentioned that you need to spend time but I want to be a little more specific now. Every day you have to practice English. You have to keep English in your mind every day. And I have a limit about how much that should be at least 30 minutes. Guys you have to spend at least 30 minutes seven days a week for as long as it takes to become really good at English. It's not asking a lot. 24 hours in a day 30 minutes is not that much. I think spending more than 30 minutes is better of course but no less than 30 minutes at least challenge yourself 30 minutes a day. Make time. If you're serious about it you will. OK so 30 minutes a day and get into the habit of practicing or doing something with English 30 minutes a day and you will see results. If you want to be good at something it's often difficult to see what your own problems are. So you need some kind of feedback. Now this is really the reason that teachers exist. Right teachers exist mainly to give you feedback about what you do to help you improve whether you're at the gym with your personal trainer or whether you're in a class with a teacher. So the teacher is there to guide you. This is one way to do it. You need some kind of feedback. So taking a class is good as long as you can get feedback. So you can know what you're doing right what you're doing wrong which direction you should be going. If you can't get a teacher. There are other ways to get some feedback. You might find a forum or a place where you can ask questions and get answers to your questions. OK. Now there are many different places where you can do this but this is another idea. There are other ways maybe your friends are also learning English and you can use them as a way to get some feedback about what you might be doing right. What you might be doing wrong could form a group and practice together and give each other feedback. This is a good way as well. Not bad. So in any case it's important to have some kind of feedback some way to find out how you're doing right because you might be doing something really really wrong and then you make that wrong thing a bad habit and then it will be really difficult to change that bad habit. So some kind of feedback is pretty important some way to ask questions at least at least now. The first of these is OK. Most people can handle that idea. The second is a little more difficult for some. The first is to make English a part of your lifestyle. I should mention that you should spend 30 minutes a day at least doing something with English doing some of the things that we'll be talking about in the rest of this course. So make it a habit that's making it part of your lifestyle. Right. But another aspect of that lifestyle thing is that you don't really think about right now it's time for me to study English. Now it's time for me to spend 30 minutes which I hate practicing English. So this isn't the best way of doing it. I wouldn't consider really a lifestyle lifestyle. English means you just do it and it's part of your routine and you don't hate it. It's just something that's there. And actually it's better if you can enjoy it. So the next part is to try to enjoy the process of learning English and trying to become more fluent. The students who are most successful usually are the ones who really really enjoy learning English actually like learning English if you like doing something you're much more likely to be successful at it. If you hate doing something it is less likely that you will be good at doing that. So try to find something about the language that you enjoy. You can still improve. You can still get better if you don't really like it but it's certainly ideal if you can find something about it that you really like. That is the best situation. OK so try to enjoy it make it part of your lifestyle. And that's that's really important. So in the next lesson we're going to be talking about how we can learn and practice by reading the importance of reading and how we can read in the right way to develop our English brain. So I will see you in the next lesson.